@W-21216935 | Documentation for AS2 v7.0.0 (#3143)
mulesoft/docs-connectors: as2/7.0/modules/ROOT/pages/as2-connector-upgrade-migrate.adoc

= Upgrading and Migrating AS2 Connector to Version 7.x
:page-aliases: connectors::as2/as2-connector-upgrade-migrate.adoc

Upgrade Anypoint Connector for AS2 (AS2 Connector) from version 6.x to 7.x to take advantage of FIPS-compliant cryptographic support and other improvements.

== Supported Upgrade Paths

> Supported upgrade paths as per below table.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow the upgrade path in the table.
```

[%header,cols="50a,50a"]
|===
|From Version | To Version
|6.x |7.x
|===

== Before You Begin

> Make sure you meet these prerequisites before upgrading to AS2 Connector 7.x:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before you upgrade to AS2 Connector 7.x, make sure you have:
```

> * Mule Runtime 4.4.0 or later (see Mule runtime release notes for FIPS support by version)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Mule runtime 4.4.0 or later. See Mule runtime release notes for FIPS support by version.
```

Reviewer: @RamaKrishna-4 Can you please add a link to the release notes that are referenced??

> * AS2 Connector version 7.0.0 or later

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* AS2 Connector version 7.0.0 or later.
```

> * AS2 Support Libraries version 3.0.0 or later

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* AS2 Support Libraries version 3.0.0 or later.
```

> * For Non FIPS mode: Bouncy Castle Java Cryptography Extension (JCE) provider, designed for JDK 1.8 and higher. Uses bcprov-jdk18on, bcpkix-jdk18on libraries. Recommended version are 1.82.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* For Non-FIPS mode, Bouncy Castle Java Cryptography Extension (JCE) provider designed for JDK 1.8 or higher. This configuration requires the `bcprov-jdk18on` and `bcpkix-jdk18on` libraries; version 1.82 is recommended.
```

> * For FIPS modes: Bouncy Castle FIPS (BCFIPS) libraries as required by your Mule runtime and security model

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* For FIPS modes, Bouncy Castle FIPS (BCFIPS) libraries as required by your Mule runtime and security model.
```

> * For FIPS 140-3: Java 17 or later with FIPS-capable JVM when required by your deployment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* For FIPS 140-3, Java 17 or later with FIPS-capable JVM when required by your deployment.
```

> == Understanding Security Modes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Supported Security Modes
```

> AS2 Connector 7.x supports three security modes, controlled by the `mule.security.model` system property:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
AS2 Connector 7.x supports these security modes, which are controlled by the `mule.security.model` system property:
```

> * **non-fips (default)** – This is the default mode and the connector uses the standard cryptographic libraries (bcprov-jdk18on, bcpkix-jdk18on) that are not FIPS compliant. The system property should not be set for default mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* *non-fips (default)*
+ 
AS2 Connector uses the standard cryptographic libraries `bcprov-jdk18on` and `bcpkix-jdk18on`, which aren't FIPS compliant. Don't set the system property as the default mode.
```

Author: The wording has changed as I wanted to highlight that this is default mode. May be better to break to two sentences.

Author: Changed as below:
AS2 Connector uses the standard cryptographic libraries `bcprov-jdk18on` and `bcpkix-jdk18on`, which aren't FIPS compliant. Don't set the system property in this mode. Default mode for mule applications that do not require to be FIPS compliant.

> * **fips140-2** – FIPS 140-2 compliant mode. The connector uses FIPS 140-2 approved cryptographic providers when this value is set.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* *fips140-2*
+ 
FIPS 140-2 compliant mode. Enabling this security mode configures AS2 Connector to use FIPS 140-2 approved cryptographic providers.
```

> * **fips140-3** – FIPS 140-3 compliant mode. The connector uses FIPS 140-3 approved cryptographic providers when this value is set.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* *fips140-3*
+ 
FIPS 140-3 compliant mode. Enabling this security mode configures AS2 Connector to use FIPS 140-3 approved cryptographic providers.
```

> When `mule.security.model` is set to a value starting with `fips140-` (for example, `fips140-2` or `fips140-3`), the connector operates in FIPS mode with the corresponding security controls.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the `mule.security.model` property begins with `fips140-`, such as `fips140-2` or `fips140-3`, then AS2 Connector activates FIPS mode and applies the corresponding security controls as shown in the example.
```

> Example for FIPS 140-3:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

[source,bash]
----
-Dmule.security.model=fips140-3
----

> == Understanding External Libs Configurations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Configure External Libraries
```

> Every Mule application that uses AS2 Connector will now require a Connector Configuration Global Element to include the necessary dependent AS2 Support libraries and cryptographic libraries allowed for each security mode. The following table lists the global configuration and required libraries for each security mode. Use exactly one row (one mode) per application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mule applications using the AS2 Connector require a Global Element configuration that includes the necessary AS2 Support and cryptographic libraries for each security mode. The table shows the global configuration and required libraries for each security mode. Use one row (one mode) per application.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

For FIPS modes, the Mule runtime and BCFIPS requirements still apply. The table provides the AS2-specific libraries.

```

[%header%autowidth]
|===

> |Security mode | Global configuration | Default Name | Required libraries (Maven coordinates)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Security Mode | Global Configuration | Default Name | Required Libraries (Maven coordinates)
```

|Non-FIPS | AS2 Connector External Libs - Non FIPS | AS2_Connector_External_Libs___Non_FIPS | `com.mulesoft.connectors:as2-bc-non-fips-impl:3.0.0`, `org.bouncycastle:bcpkix-jdk18on:1.82`, `org.bouncycastle:bcprov-jdk18on:1.82`
|FIPS 140-2 | AS2 Connector External Libs - FIPS 140-2 | AS2_Connector_External_Libs___FIPS_140_2 | `com.mulesoft.connectors:as2-bc1-fips-impl:3.0.0`
|FIPS 140-3 | AS2 Connector External Libs - FIPS 140-3 | `AS2_Connector_External_Libs___FIPS_140_3` | `com.mulesoft.connectors:as2-bc2-fips-impl:3.0.0`
|===

> For FIPS modes, the Mule runtime and BCFIPS requirements still apply; the table lists the AS2-specific libraries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Look at the snapshot for the Connector Configurations listed above that can be used for creating Global Elemets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The image shows the connector configurations from the table that are used for creating Global Elements.
```

> image::as2-connector-global-element-config.png[Create Connector Configurations Global Element]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
image::as2-connector-global-element-config.png["Configure Global Elements for AS2 Connector"]
```

== Upgrade Steps

> Follow the steps below to upgrade from AS2 Connector 6.x to 7.x. Configuration depends on the security mode you use: non-fips, fips140-2, or fips140-3.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow these steps to upgrade from AS2 Connector 6.x to 7.x. The configuration changes based on whether you select `non-fips`, `fips140-2`, or `fips140-3` for the security mode.
```

=== Step 1: Update the Connector Dependency

> . Update your project's `pom.xml` to use AS2 Connector 7.x:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Update your project's `pom.xml` file to use AS2 Connector 7.x:
```

[source,xml,subs=attributes+]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>com.mulesoft.connectors</groupId>
    <artifactId>mule-as2-connector</artifactId>
    <version>7.0.0</version>
    <classifier>mule-plugin</classifier>
</dependency>
----

.  Rebuild the project and resolve any API or configuration changes reported by the build.

=== Step 2: Add a Connector Configuration Global Element

> In 7.x, the application must include *exactly one* AS2 Connector External Libs global configuration. Add it as described below for chosen mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In 7.x, the application must include only one AS2 Connector External Libs global configuration. Add it as described based on your selected security mode.
```

> ==== Non-FIPS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
==== Configure the Non-FIPS Security Mode
```

> Use this configuration when you are *not* running in a FIPS-regulated environment. Add the External Libs global configuration, do not set the runtime property explicitly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use this configuration when you're running in a non-FIPS regulated environment. Add the External Libs global configuration and don't set the runtime property explicitly.
```

> **Requirements:**

Reviewer: Suggested change
      
    
    
      
          
            
          
          
          
            
            To configure the global configuration as a Mule app in a non-FIPS environment:

> * BouncyCastle jdk18on libraries v1.82 must be available to add them as external libraries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Add BouncyCastle jdk18on library v1.82 as an external library.
```

> **Mule app:**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> * **In Anypoint Studio:**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> . In the *Package Explorer* or *Canvas*, open your Mule flow or configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the *Package Explorer* or *Canvas* in Anypoint Studio, open your Mule flow or configuration.
```

> . Click *Global Elements* (or *Create global element* / the plus icon next to Global Elements).

Reviewer: Is the content in parentheses necessary?

Author: Yes as it clarifies how it should be configured.

> . Click *Global Elements* (or *Create global element* / the plus icon next to Global Elements).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Click *Global Elements* or *Create global element* and then the plus icon.
```

> . Click *Create*, search for *AS2* or *External Libs*, and select: *AS2 Connector External Libs - Non FIPS*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Click *Create*, and then search for the *AS2* or *External Libs* option and select *AS2 Connector External Libs - Non FIPS*.
```

> . Name the configuration and add the *Required libraries* for the chosen mode (see the table Understanding External Libs Configurations) by clicking *Configure* and *Add recommended libraries* before clicking *OK*. The libraries will be included as `dependencies` and `sharedLibraries` in the Mule application `pom.xml` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Name the configuration.
. Click *Configure* > *Add recommended libraries* to add the required libraries for your selected security mode.
. Click *OK* to include the libraries as `dependencies` and `sharedLibraries` in the Mule application `pom.xml` file.
```

> . Ensure your project has the required dependencies for that mode (add them via Maven if not pulled in automatically).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Verity that your project has the required dependencies for your selected security mode. Add the dependencies via Maven if they weren't added automatically.
```

> Below is a screenshot of the Connector Configuration Global Element along with configurations to perform for non-fips mode:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The image shows the Connector Configuration Global Element and the configurations that must be performed when using the non-fips security mode:
```

> image::as2-connector-upgrade-non-fips-config.png[Non-FIPS (default) configuration]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
image::as2-connector-upgrade-non-fips-config.png["The non-FIPS default configuration"]
```

> * **In XML (Maven or standalone):**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow these steps to configure the non-FIPS security mode in XML (Maven or standalone):
```

> . Open your main Mule configuration file (for example, `src/main/mule/` or `src/main/resources/`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Open your main Mule configuration file, such as `src/main/mule/` or `src/main/resources/`.
```

> . Add global element `as2-mule4:external-libs-non-fips-config` manually in Mule configuration file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Add the `as2-mule4:external-libs-non-fips-config` global element to the Mule configuration file.
```

. Add dependencies and sharedLibraries manually as explained below. 

> . Add the AS2 Connector External Libs - Non FIPS global configuration to your Mule configuration file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Add the `AS2 Connector External Libs - Non FIPS` global configuration to your Mule configuration file, as shown in the example:
```

[source,xml,subs=attributes+]
----
<as2-mule4:external-libs-non-fips-config name="AS2_External_Libs_Non_FIPS" />
----

> . Add the required Maven dependencies for your chosen mode to `pom.xml` (see the table Understanding External Libs Configurations).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Add the required Maven dependencies for your selected security mode to the `pom.xml` file.
```

Reviewer: If you want to link to the table, you can add an anchor link.

Author: Should always point to release notes as it can vary.
xref:release-notes:connector/as2-connector-release-notes-mule-4.adoc[Release notes] for comptabile versions of dependencies.

[source,xml,subs=attributes+]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.bouncycastle</groupId>
    <artifactId>bcpkix-jdk18on</artifactId>
    <version>${bouncy.castle.jdk18on.version}</version>
</dependency>
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.bouncycastle</groupId>
    <artifactId>bcprov-jdk18on</artifactId>
    <version>${bouncy.castle.jdk18on.version}</version>
</dependency>
<dependency>
    <groupId>com.mulesoft.connectors</groupId>
    <artifactId>as2-bc-non-fips-impl</artifactId>
    <version>${as2.support.library.version}</version>
</dependency>
----

> . Add the configuration for `mule-maven-plugin` by including the `sharedLibraries` under build -> plugins -> plugin section of pom.xml.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Add the `mule-maven-plugin` by adding `sharedLibraries` to the plugin section of the `pom.xml` file.
```

Author: There are multiple plugin sections and I am not sure if all users may know how to add sharedLibraries.

Author: I amended it as below:
. Update the `mule-maven-plugin` by adding the `sharedLibraries` under build -> plugins -> plugin section of pom.xml file.

[source,xml,subs=attributes+]
----
<configuration>
  <sharedLibraries>
    <sharedLibrary>
      <groupId>com.mulesoft.connectors</groupId>
      <artifactId>as2-bc-non-fips-impl</artifactId>
    </sharedLibrary>
    <sharedLibrary>
      <groupId>org.bouncycastle</groupId>
      <artifactId>bcpkix-jdk18on</artifactId>
    </sharedLibrary>
    <sharedLibrary>
      <groupId>org.bouncycastle</groupId>
      <artifactId>bcprov-jdk18on</artifactId>
    </sharedLibrary>
  </sharedLibraries>
</configuration>
----

==== FIPS 140-2

> Use this configuration when your environment requires FIPS 140-2 compliant cryptography. Add the External Libs global configuration first, then set the runtime property.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use this configuration when your environment requires FIPS 140-2 compliant cryptography. Add the External Libs global configuration first, and then set the runtime property.
```

> **Requirements:**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To configure the global configuration as a Mule app in an environment that requires FIPS 140-2 compliant cryptography:
```

> * BouncyCastle FIPS (BCFIPS) must be available as required by your Mule runtime for FIPS 140-2.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Make sure BouncyCastle FIPS (BCFIPS) is available as required by your Mule runtime for FIPS 140-2.
```

> * Ensure BCFIPS is configured in Java Security or via Mule runtime FIPS documentation for your version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Make sure BCFIPS is configured in Java Security or via Mule runtime FIPS documentation for your version.
```

> **Mule app:** 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> * **In Anypoint Studio:**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> . In the *Package Explorer* or *Canvas*, open your Mule flow or configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the *Package Explorer* or *Canvas* in Anypoint Studio, open your Mule flow or configuration.
```

> . Click *Global Elements* (or *Create global element* / the plus icon next to Global Elements).

Reviewer: From this point, you can apply my suggested changes from the previous section.

. Add global element `as2-mule4:external-libs-fips140-2-config` manually in Mule configuration xml file.
. Add dependencies and sharedLibraries manually as explained below. 
. Add the AS2 Connector External Libs - FIPS 140-2 global configuration to your Mule configuration file:

[source,xml,subs=attributes+]
----
<as2-mule4:external-libs-fips140-2-config name="AS2_External_Libs_FIPS_140_2" />
----

. Add the required Maven dependencies for your chosen mode to `pom.xml` (see the table below).

[source,xml,subs=attributes+]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>com.mulesoft.connectors</groupId>
    <artifactId>as2-bc1-fips-impl</artifactId>
    <version>${as2.support.library.version}</version>
</dependency>
----

. Add the configuration for `mule-maven-plugin` by including the sharedLibraries under build -> plugins -> plugin section of pom.xml.

[source,xml,subs=attributes+]
----
<configuration>
  <sharedLibraries>
    <sharedLibrary>
      <groupId>com.mulesoft.connectors</groupId>
      <artifactId>as2-bc1-fips-impl</artifactId>
    </sharedLibrary>
  </sharedLibraries>
</configuration>
----

> **JVM / Mule runtime:** Set the security model to FIPS 140-2:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In *JVM / Mule runtime*, set the security model to FIPS 140-2 as shown:
```

[source,bash]
----
-Dmule.security.model=fips140-2
----

> **Optional (if required by your runtime):** For BCFIPS to use only FIPS-approved algorithms:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. If required by your runtime, configure BCFIPS to use only FIPS-approved algorithms as shown:
```

[source,bash]
----
-Dorg.bouncycastle.fips.approved_only=true
----

> **Example Mule runtime startup (FIPS 140-2):**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example shows the Mule runtime startup configuration for FIPS 140-2:
```

[source,bash]
----
java -Dmule.security.model=fips140-2 \
  -Dorg.bouncycastle.fips.approved_only=true \
  -jar mule-standalone.jar
----

==== FIPS 140-3

> Use this configuration when your environment requires FIPS 140-3 compliant cryptography. Add the External Libs global configuration first, then set the runtime property.

Reviewer: From here, you can apply the suggested changes from the previous sections.

----

. Add the required Maven dependencies for your chosen mode to `pom.xml` (see the table below).

[source,xml,subs=attributes+]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>com.mulesoft.connectors</groupId>
    <artifactId>as2-bc2-fips-impl</artifactId>
    <version>${as2.support.library.version}</version>
</dependency>
----

. Add the configuration for `mule-maven-plugin` by including the sharedLibraries under build -> plugins -> plugin section of pom.xml.

[source,xml,subs=attributes+]
----
<configuration>
  <sharedLibraries>
    <sharedLibrary>
      <groupId>com.mulesoft.connectors</groupId>
      <artifactId>as2-bc2-fips-impl</artifactId>
    </sharedLibrary>
  </sharedLibraries>
</configuration>
----

**JVM / Mule runtime:** Set the security model to FIPS 140-3:

[source,bash]
----
-Dmule.security.model=fips140-3
----

**Required for FIPS compliance:** Restrict BCFIPS to FIPS-approved algorithms only:

[source,bash]
----
-Dorg.bouncycastle.fips.approved_only=true
----

**Example Mule runtime startup (FIPS 140-3):**

[source,bash]
----
java -Dmule.security.model=fips140-3 \
  -Dorg.bouncycastle.fips.approved_only=true \
  -jar mule-standalone.jar
----

> The `org.bouncycastle.fips.approved_only` property is JVM-wide and must be set by your system or runtime configuration when running in FIPS mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[NOTE]
The `org.bouncycastle.fips.approved_only` property is JVM-wide and must be set by your system or runtime configuration when running in FIPS mode.
```

=== Step 3: Keystore and Algorithm Compatibility

> * Ensure keystores and certificates are compatible with the security mode (FIPS modes may require FIPS-approved algorithms).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Make sure keystores and certificates are compatible with your selected security mode. Some FIPS modes require FIPS-approved algorithms.
```

> * If you use BCFIPS in FIPS mode, key and algorithm restrictions apply; refer to Mule and BCFIPS documentation for approved algorithms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If you use BCFIPS in FIPS mode, key and algorithm restrictions apply. See the Mule and BCFIPS documentation for a list of approved algorithms.
```

Reviewer: @RamaKrishna-4 Can you add a link to the Mule and BCFIPS documentation?

Author: Its based on BCFIPS provider configured in fips environments. Changed the wording.

=== Step 4: Verify Connector Usage in Flows

> * Ensure partner certificates and algorithms are compatible with the chosen security mode and verify if the Connector Configuration exists in the Mule if AS2 Connector operations are used in any of the flows. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Make sure partner certificates and algorithms are compatible with your selected security mode. If you use AS2 Connector operations in the flows, verify that the connector configuration also exists in the Mule app. 
```

> == External Libs Configuration and Startup Validations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Configure External Libraries and Validate Startup
```

> When any AS2 source or operation starts (AS2 Listener, AS2 MDN Listener, or Send operations), the connector runs validations to ensure the External Libs configuration and runtime settings are correct. Understanding these checks helps you resolve startup errors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When an AS2 listener, AS2 MDN listener, or Send operation starts, AS2 Connector validates that the External Libs configuration and runtime settings are correct. Understanding these checks helps you resolve startup errors.
```

=== Validations Performed at Startup

> The connector performs the following checks and fails deployment of the Mule application when operations (Listener, MDN Listener, or Send config) are included in the Mule app:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Validation fails if the Mule application includes listener, MDN listener, or Send operations that don't meet these configuration requirements:
```

> * **Exactly one configuration** – The application must have exactly one External Libs configuration. You see an error if none is added or if multiple are added.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* *One External Library*
+ 
An error occurs if the application includes more than one external library or doesn't include any.
```

> * **System property alignment** – The `mule.security.model` system property must match the chosen External Libs configuration:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* *System Property Alignment*
+ 
The `mule.security.model` system property must match the selected External Libs configuration:
```

> ** *Non-FIPS:* `mule.security.model` must not be set. If it is set, the connector reports that you must remove the property for non-fips mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** For non-FIPS, `mule.security.model` must not be enabled. If it's enabled, you must remove the property.
```

> ** *FIPS 140-2:* `mule.security.model` must be `fips140-2`. Otherwise the connector reports that you must set `-Dmule.security.model=fips140-2`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** For FIPS 140-2, `mule.security.model` must be set to `fips140-2`. If it's not configured correctly, you'll receive a message to correct the setting to `-Dmule.security.model=fips140-2`.
```

> ** *FIPS 140-3:* `mule.security.model` must be `fips140-3`. Otherwise the connector reports that you must set `-Dmule.security.model=fips140-3`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** For FIPS 140-3, `mule.security.model` must be set to `fips140-3`. If it's not configured correctly, you'll receive a message to correct the setting to `-Dmule.security.model=fips140-3`.
```

> * **Classpath alignment** – The implementation library for the chosen mode must be on the classpath. If the expected library is missing (for example, `as2-bc-non-fips-impl` for Non-FIPS, `as2-bc1-fips-impl` for FIPS 140-2, or `as2-bc2-fips-impl` for FIPS 140-3), startup fails with an error. A warning recommending to remove conflicting libraries from the classpath will also be shown in the logs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The implementation library for the selected security mode must be on the same `classpath`. Startup fails if the expected library is missing. To resolve the issue, review the error log to find the conflicting libraries and remove them from the `classpath`. These are the correct implementation libraries for each security mode:

** Non-FIPS: `as2-bc-non-fips-impl`
** FIPS 140-2: `as2-bc1-fips-impl`
** FIPS 140-3: `as2-bc2-fips-impl`

```

> * **Crypto implementation instantiation** – The connector instantiates the cryptographic implementation for the selected mode at startup. If this fails (for example, due to missing or incompatible libraries), the application fails fast with an error that includes the security profile and the cause.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* AS2 Connector instantiates the cryptographic implementation for the selected security mode at startup. If this fails, for example due to missing or incompatible libraries, the application shows an error that includes the security profile and the cause.
```

== System Properties Reference

|===
|Property | Description | Values | Default | Scope
|`mule.security.model` | Security mode used by the connector | `fips140-2` or `fips140-3` | `non-fips` (when not set) | Runtime / JVM
|`org.bouncycastle.fips.approved_only` | Restricts BCFIPS to FIPS-approved algorithms only. Required for FIPS compliance when using BCFIPS. | `true`, `false` | `false` | JVM-wide
|===

> The `org.bouncycastle.fips.approved_only` property affects the entire JVM. It is not set by the AS2 Connector; when running in FIPS mode, the system administrator must configure it according to Mule and BCFIPS documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `org.bouncycastle.fips.approved_only` property affects the entire JVM. When the application runs in FIPS mode, the system administrator must configure the property. For more information, see Mule and BCFIPS documentation.
```

Reviewer: @RamaKrishna-4 Can you add links to the documentation that's referenced?

Author: This is the link I have added as a reference. May be it be in correct in adoc. Can you please check?
https://docs.mulesoft.com/mule-runtime/latest/fips-140-2-compliance-support

== Migrate Existing Deployments

> AS2 Connector 7.x introduces a Global Connector Configuration and support for configurable security mode (non-FIPS, FIPS 140-2, FIPS 140-3) via the `mule.security.model` system property. Follow the Upgrade Steps section for changes to be done to the Mule application; cryptographic behavior aligns with the global configuration that adds the required libraries and the runtime security model. Existing flows and configurations from 6.x continue to work without any other code changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
AS2 Connector 7.x introduces a Global Connector Configuration and supports configurable security modes including non-FIPS, FIPS 140-2, and FIPS 140-3 via the `mule.security.model` system property. Follow the upgrade steps for the changes that must be made to the Mule app. AS2 Connector’s cryptographic behavior is determined by the global configuration, which provides the necessary libraries and defines the runtime security model.

Existing 6.x flows remain functional without requiring code or configuration changes.
```

> === FIPS Environments (140-2 or 140-3)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== FIPS 140-2 or 140-3 Environment
```

Reviewer: Another word is needed after "Environment" to explain what information this section is providing

> . Verify that BCFIPS and any FIPS-related settings are configured for your Mule runtime version (see Mule documentation for FIPS).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Verify that BCFIPS and FIPS-related settings are configured correctly for your Mule runtime version. For more information, see Mule documentation for FIPS.
```

Reviewer: @RamaKrishna-4 Can you add the documentation xref?

Author: same here: https://docs.mulesoft.com/mule-runtime/latest/fips-140-2-compliance-support

. Set `mule.security.model` to `fips140-2` or `fips140-3` as appropriate for your compliance requirement.
. Set `org.bouncycastle.fips.approved_only=true` when required for compliance.

> . Test in a non-production environment: run flows with AS2 Listener, MDN Listener, and Send operations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Test your configuration in a non-production environment. Run your flows with the AS2 listener, MDN listener, and Send operations.
```

> . Deploy to production and monitor logs for successful startup and AS2 message exchange.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Deploy the application to production and monitor the error log to verify a successful startup and AS2 message exchange.
```

== Post-Upgrade Steps

> . Verify that the application starts without errors and that the AS2 Connector initializes correctly for your chosen security mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Verify that the application starts without errors and that AS2 Connector initializes correctly for your selected security mode.
```

> . Test AS2 Listener, MDN Listener, and Send operations against your AS2 partner(s).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Test the AS2 listener, MDN listener, and Send operations against your AS2 partners.
```

. Confirm that certificates and algorithms are accepted in FIPS mode if applicable.

> . Notify partners of any URL or port changes if you modified the HTTP Listener configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Notify partners of URL or port changes if you modified the HTTP Listener configuration.
```

== Troubleshooting

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

These common error messages indicate configuration or `classpath` issues that prevent AS2 Connector from operating in the desired security mode.

```

> * **"AS2 Connector requires at least one External Libs configuration":** Add exactly one External Libs global configuration to your application (AS2 Connector External Libs - Non FIPS, AS2 Connector External Libs - FIPS 140-2, or AS2 Connector External Libs - FIPS 140-3). See <<External Libs Configuration and Startup Validations>>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* *AS2 Connector requires at least one External Libs configuration*
+ 
Add AS2 Connector External Libs - Non FIPS, AS2 Connector External Libs - FIPS 140-2, or AS2 Connector External Libs - FIPS 140-3 to your application. See <<External Libs Configuration and Startup Validations>>.
```

Reviewer: @RamaKrishna-4 I'm not sure that anchor link is correct

> * **"Only one External Libs configuration is allowed per application":** Remove the extra External Libs configuration(s) so that only one of the three (Non-FIPS, FIPS 140-2, or FIPS 140-3) remains.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* *Only one External Libs configuration is allowed per application*
+ 
Remove the additional External Libs configurations so that you only have non-FIPS, FIPS 140-2, or FIPS 140-3.
```

> * **"Detected 'as2-bc-non-fips-impl' but system property 'mule.security.model' is ...":** For Non-FIPS mode, do not set `mule.security.model`, or remove it from JVM arguments or runtime configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* *Detected 'as2-bc-non-fips-impl' but system property 'mule.security.model' is ...*
+ 
For non-FIPS mode, disable `mule.security.model` or remove it from the JVM arguments or runtime configuration.
```

> * **"Detected 'as2-bc1-fips-impl' but system property ... Set -Dmule.security.model=fips140-2":** Add `-Dmule.security.model=fips140-2` when using AS2 Connector External Libs - FIPS 140-2.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* *Detected 'as2-bc1-fips-impl' but system property ... Set -Dmule.security.model=fips140-2*
+ 
Add `-Dmule.security.model=fips140-2` when using AS2 Connector External Libs - FIPS 140-2.
```

> * **"Detected 'as2-bc2-fips-impl' but system property ... Set -Dmule.security.model=fips140-3":** Add `-Dmule.security.model=fips140-3` when using AS2 Connector External Libs - FIPS 140-3.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* *Detected 'as2-bc2-fips-impl' but system property ... Set -Dmule.security.model=fips140-3*
+ 
Add `-Dmule.security.model=fips140-3` when using AS2 Connector External Libs - FIPS 140-3.
```

> * **"External Libs - ... configuration selected, but '...' is not on the classpath":** Add the correct implementation dependency for your chosen mode (or ensure the External Libs configuration pulls it in). Remove any other AS2 crypto implementation libraries for the other modes from the classpath if the connector warns about them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* *External Libs - ... configuration selected, but '...' is not on the classpath*
+ 
Add the correct implementation dependency for your selected security mode or make sure the External Libs configuration imports the dependency. If you receive a warning, make sure only the library for your active security mode remains on the `classpath` by removing additional AS2 cryptographic implementations.
```

> * **Startup or crypto errors in FIPS mode:** Ensure `mule.security.model` matches your runtime FIPS setup and that BCFIPS is correctly installed and registered. Set `org.bouncycastle.fips.approved_only=true` when required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* *Startup or crypto errors in FIPS mode*
+ 
Make sure `mule.security.model` matches your runtime FIPS setup and that BCFIPS is installed and registered. Set `org.bouncycastle.fips.approved_only=true` if required.
```

> * **Tests or flows that relied on Non-FIPS behavior:** When running with `mule.security.model=fips140-2` or `fips140-3`, some algorithms or key usages may be restricted; align keystores and partner expectations with FIPS-approved algorithms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* *Tests or flows that relied on Non-FIPS behavior*
+ 
If your application is running with `mule.security.model=fips140-2` or `fips140-3`, some algorithms or key usages are restricted. Align keystores and partner expectations with FIPS-approved algorithms.
```

> * **Caching or metadata issues:** If Studio or Design Center shows stale configuration, try restarting the IDE or clearing caches.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* *Caching or metadata issues*
+ 
If Anypoint Studio or Anypoint Design Center shows a stale configuration, try restarting the IDE or clearing caches.
```

== Revert the Upgrade

> To revert to AS2 Connector 6.x, change the `mule-as2-connector` dependency in your project's `pom.xml` back to the desired 6.x version. Remove the Global Element (AS2 Connector External Libs - Non FIPS, AS2 Connector External Libs - FIPS 140-2, or AS2 Connector External Libs - FIPS 140-3). Remove the libraries that are added as `dependencies` and `sharedLibraries` from the `pom.xml` file. Remove or adjust any 7.x-specific system properties (such as `mule.security.model`) if they are not used by other components.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To revert to AS2 Connector 6.x:

. Change the `mule-as2-connector` dependency in your project's `pom.xml` file to the desired 6.x version.
. Remove the Global Element AS2 Connector External Libs - Non FIPS, AS2 Connector External Libs - FIPS 140-2, or AS2 Connector External Libs - FIPS 140-3.
. Remove the libraries that are added as `dependencies` and `sharedLibraries` from the `pom.xml` file.
. Remove or adjust 7.x-specific system properties, such as `mule.security.model`, if they aren't used by other components.
```

= Upgrading and Migrating AS2 Connector to Version 7.x
:page-aliases: connectors::as2/as2-connector-upgrade-migrate.adoc

Upgrade Anypoint Connector for AS2 (AS2 Connector) from version 6.x to 7.x to take advantage of FIPS-compliant cryptographic support and other improvements.

== Supported Upgrade Paths

[%header,cols="50a,50a"]
|===
|From Version | To Version
|6.x |7.x
|===

== Before You Begin

Before you upgrade to AS2 Connector 7.x, make sure you have:

> * Mule runtime 4.4.0 or later. See Mule runtime release notes for FIPS support by version.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Mule runtime 4.4.0 or later. See the Mule runtime release notes for FIPS support by version.
```

* AS2 Connector version 7.0.0 or later.
* AS2 Support Libraries version 3.0.0 or later.
* For non-FIPS mode, Bouncy Castle Java Cryptography Extension (JCE) provider designed for JDK 1.8 or higher. This configuration requires the `bcprov-jdk18on` and `bcpkix-jdk18on` libraries. Version 1.82 is recommended.
* For FIPS modes, Bouncy Castle FIPS (BCFIPS) libraries as required by your Mule runtime and security model.
* For FIPS 140-3, Java 17 or later with FIPS-capable JVM if required by your deployment.

== Supported Security Modes

AS2 Connector 7.x supports these security modes, which are controlled by the `mule.security.model` system property:

* *non-FIPS (default)*
+

> This is the default security mode for mule applications that aren't required to be FIPS compliant. AS2 Connector uses the standard cryptographic libraries `bcprov-jdk18on` and `bcpkix-jdk18on`, which aren't FIPS compliant. Don't set the system property in this mode.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is the default security mode for Mule applications that don't require FIPS compliance. AS2 Connector uses the standard cryptographic libraries `bcprov-jdk18on` and `bcpkix-jdk18on`, which aren't FIPS compliant. Don't set the system property in this mode.
```

* *FIPS 140-2 Compliant Mode*
+ 
Enable this security mode to configure AS2 Connector to use FIPS 140-2 approved cryptographic providers.
* *FIPS 140-3 Compliant Mode*
+ 
Enable this security mode to configure AS2 Connector to use FIPS 140-3 approved cryptographic providers.

If the `mule.security.model` property begins with `fips140-`, then AS2 Connector activates FIPS mode and applies the corresponding security controls, as shown in the example.

[source,bash]
----
-Dmule.security.model=fips140-3
----

[[configure-external-libraries]]
== Configure External Libraries

> Mule applications using the AS2 Connector require a Global Element configuration that includes the necessary AS2 Support and cryptographic libraries for each security mode. The table shows the global configuration and required library for each security mode. Use only one security mode per application.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Mule applications using AS2 Connector require a Global Element configuration that includes the necessary AS2 support and cryptographic libraries for each security mode. The table shows the global configuration and required libraries for each security mode. Use only one security mode per application.
```

|FIPS 140-3 | `AS2 Connector External Libs - FIPS 140-3` | `AS2_Connector_External_Libs___FIPS_140_3` | com.mulesoft.connectors:as2-bc2-fips-impl:3.0.0
|===

image::as2-connector-upgrade-global-element-config.png["Connector configurations that are used for creating Global Elements"]

[[upgrade-steps]]
== Upgrade Steps

Follow these steps to upgrade from AS2 Connector 6.x to 7.x. Use the configuration that applies to your selected security mode.

=== Step 1: Update the Connector Dependency

. Update your project's `pom.xml` file to use AS2 Connector 7.x:

[source,xml,subs=attributes+]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>com.mulesoft.connectors</groupId>
    <artifactId>mule-as2-connector</artifactId>
    <version>7.0.0</version>
    <classifier>mule-plugin</classifier>
</dependency>
----

[start=2]
. Rebuild the project and resolve API or configuration changes reported by the build.

=== Step 2: Add a Connector Configuration Global Element

Include only one external library global configuration. Follow the global element configuration steps for your selected security mode.

==== Configure a Global Element for the non-FIPS Security Mode

> As a prerequisite, add the external library global configuration and don't set the runtime property. Also, make sure the BouncyCastle jdk18on library version 1.82 is available to add as an external library.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Add the external library global configuration and don't set the runtime property. Also, make sure the BouncyCastle jdk18on library version 1.82 is available to add as an external library.
```

Reviewer 2: This reformatting/reordering is optional. I'll leave it up to you. I think if they have to do this, just make it Step 1.

> To configure the global element as a Mule app in Anypoint Studio:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Configure the global element as a Mule app in Anypoint Studio:
```

> . In the *Package Explorer* or *Canvas*, open your Mule flow or configuration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. In the *Package Explorer* or Anypoint Studio canvas, open your Mule flow or configuration.
```

> . Click *Global Elements*. Or click *Create global element*, and then click the plus icon next to Global Elements.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. Click *Global Elements*. Or click *Create global element*, and then click the plus icon next to Global Elements.
```

> . Click *Create*, and then search for the *AS2* or *External Libs* option and select `AS2 Connector External Libs - Non FIPS`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Click *Create*, and then search for the `AS2` or 1External Libs` option and select *AS2 Connector External Libs - Non FIPS*.
```

Reviewer 2: I might be wrong about that formatting. Maybe they aren't actually searching? They are just looking for that in the UI?

Reviewer: Yes, looking in the UI.

> . Name the configuration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. Name the configuration.
```

> . Click *Configure* > *Add recommended libraries* to add the libraries.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. Click *Configure* > *Add recommended libraries*.
```

> . Click *OK* to include the libraries as dependencies and shared libraries in the Mule application `pom.xml` file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. Click *OK* to include the libraries as dependencies and shared libraries in the Mule application `pom.xml` file.
```

> . Verify that your project has the required dependencies for your selected security mode. Add the dependencies via Maven if they haven't been added automatically.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Verify that your project has the required dependencies for your selected security mode. Add the dependencies via Maven if they aren't added automatically.
```

> image::as2-connector-upgrade-non-fips-config.png["The Connector Configuration Global Element and the configurations that must be performed when using the non-FIPS security mode"]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
image::as2-connector-upgrade-non-fips-config.png["The Connector Configuration Global Element and the configurations for non-FIPS security mode"]
```

. Add the `as2-mule4:external-libs-non-fips-config` global element to the Mule configuration file.
. Add the `AS2 Connector External Libs - Non FIPS` global configuration to your Mule configuration file, as shown in the example:

[source,xml,subs=attributes+]
----
<as2-mule4:external-libs-non-fips-config name="AS2_External_Libs_Non_FIPS" />
----

[start=4]
. Add the required Maven dependencies to the `pom.xml` file. Refer to the 
xref:release-notes::connector/as2-connector-release-notes-mule-4.adoc[AS2 Connector Release Notes] for the compatible versions of the dependencies.

[source,xml,subs=attributes+]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.bouncycastle</groupId>
    <artifactId>bcpkix-jdk18on</artifactId>
    <version>${bouncy.castle.jdk18on.version}</version>
</dependency>
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.bouncycastle</groupId>
    <artifactId>bcprov-jdk18on</artifactId>
    <version>${bouncy.castle.jdk18on.version}</version>
</dependency>
<dependency>
    <groupId>com.mulesoft.connectors</groupId>
    <artifactId>as2-bc-non-fips-impl</artifactId>
    <version>${as2.support.library.version}</version>
</dependency>
----

[start=5]

> . Update the `mule-maven-plugin` by including the shared libraries in the *build* > *plugins* > *plugin* section of the `pom.xml` file.

Reviewer 2: I'm not seeing build > plugins > plugin in the below code. Can we show that in the code snippet?

Reviewer: We're going to leave it out because it'd be too much to include.

[source,xml,subs=attributes+]
----
<configuration>
  <sharedLibraries>
    <sharedLibrary>
      <groupId>com.mulesoft.connectors</groupId>
      <artifactId>as2-bc-non-fips-impl</artifactId>
    </sharedLibrary>
    <sharedLibrary>
      <groupId>org.bouncycastle</groupId>
      <artifactId>bcpkix-jdk18on</artifactId>
    </sharedLibrary>
    <sharedLibrary>
      <groupId>org.bouncycastle</groupId>
      <artifactId>bcprov-jdk18on</artifactId>
    </sharedLibrary>
  </sharedLibraries>
</configuration>
----

==== Configure a Global Element for the FIPS 140-2 Security Mode

> As a prerequisite, add the external library global configuration and set the runtime property. Also, make sure BouncyCastle FIPS (BCFIPS) is available as required by your Mule runtime. Configure BCFIPS in Java Security. For FIPS 140-2, follow the xref:mule-runtime::fips-140-2-compliance-support.adoc[FIPS 140-2 Compliance Support] documentation.

Reviewer 2: I changed this to Step 1 in the previous procedure. I'm going to leave that whole thing up to you. I'm just trying to avoid this "As a prerequisite..." thing. My reasoning is, if they have to do it, just make it Step 1.

Reviewer 2: If you don't want to do that, maybe make this a bullet list instead of a paragraph? For easier scannability.

To configure the global element as a Mule app in Anypoint Studio:

> . In the *Package Explorer* or *Canvas*, open your Mule flow or configuration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. In the *Package Explorer* or Anypoint Studio canvas, open your Mule flow or configuration.
```

. Click *Global Elements*. Or click *Create global element*, and then click the plus icon next to Global Elements.

> . Click *Create*, and then search for the *AS2* or *External Libs* option and select `AS2 Connector External Libs - FIPS 140-2`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Click *Create*, and then search for the `AS2` or `External Libs` option and select *AS2 Connector External Libs - FIPS 140-2*.
```

Reviewer 2: I might be wrong about that formatting. Maybe they aren't actually searching? They are just looking for that in the UI?

. Name the configuration.

> . Click *Configure* > *Add recommended libraries* to add the libraries.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Click *Configure* > *Add recommended libraries*.
```

. Click *OK* to include the libraries as dependencies and shared libraries in the Mule application `pom.xml` file.

> . Verify that your project has the required dependencies for your selected security mode. Add the dependencies via Maven if they haven't been added automatically.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Verify that your project has the required dependencies for your selected security mode. Add the dependencies via Maven if they aren't added automatically.
```

> image::as2-connector-upgrade-fips140-2-config.png["The Connector Configuration Global Element and the configurations that must be performed when using the FIPS 140-2 security mode"]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
image::as2-connector-upgrade-fips140-2-config.png["The Connector Configuration Global Element and the configurations for using the FIPS 140-2 security mode"]
```

To configure the global element manually in XML (Maven or standalone):

. Open your main Mule configuration file, such as `src/main/mule/` or `src/main/resources/`.
. Add the `as2-mule4:external-libs-fips140-2-config` global element to the Mule configuration file.
. Add the `AS2 Connector External Libs - FIPS 140-2` global configuration to your Mule configuration file, as shown in the example.

[source,xml,subs=attributes+]
----
<as2-mule4:external-libs-fips140-2-config name="AS2_External_Libs_FIPS_140_2" />
----

[start=4]
. Add the required Maven dependencies to the `pom.xml` file. Refer to the 
xref:release-notes::connector/as2-connector-release-notes-mule-4.adoc[AS2 Connector Release Notes] for the compatible versions of the dependencies.

[source,xml,subs=attributes+]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>com.mulesoft.connectors</groupId>
    <artifactId>as2-bc1-fips-impl</artifactId>
    <version>${as2.support.library.version}</version>
</dependency>
----

[start=5]

> . Update the `mule-maven-plugin` by including the shared libraries in the *build* > *plugins* > *plugin* section of the `pom.xml` file.

Reviewer 2: Same comment as before.

[source,xml,subs=attributes+]
----
<configuration>
  <sharedLibraries>
    <sharedLibrary>
      <groupId>com.mulesoft.connectors</groupId>
      <artifactId>as2-bc1-fips-impl</artifactId>
    </sharedLibrary>
  </sharedLibraries>
</configuration>
----

[start=6]
. In JVM or Mule runtime, set the security model to FIPS 140-2.

[source,bash]
----
-Dmule.security.model=fips140-2
----

[start=7]
. Restrict BCFIPS to use only FIPS-approved algorithms.

[source,bash]
----
-Dorg.bouncycastle.fips.approved_only=true
----

This example shows the Mule runtime startup configuration for FIPS 140-2:

[source,bash]
----
java -Dmule.security.model=fips140-2 \
  -Dorg.bouncycastle.fips.approved_only=true \
  -jar mule-standalone.jar
----

==== Configure a Global Element for the FIPS 140-3 Security Mode

> As a prerequisite, add the external library global configuration and set the runtime property. Also, make sure BouncyCastle FIPS (BCFIPS) is available as required by your Mule runtime. Configure BCFIPS in Java Security or by following the Mule runtime FIPS documentation for your version. Make sure you have Java 17 or later as required for FIPS 140-3 support in your deployment.

Reviewer 2: All of the same comments I had in the previous procedures apply.
